\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename evil-opener.info
@settitle evil-opener Manual 0.1
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for evil-opener version 0.2.

Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Tim Reddehase

@quotation
All rights reserved. This manual must accompany the source code of the
evil-opener.el package.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs lisp libraries
@direntry
* evil-opener: (evil-opener). Seamlessly open files via http(s) in buffer, in evil.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title evil-opener.el Manual
@author Tim Reddehase

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@node Top
@top Top

This manual is for evil-opener.el, version 0.1.

@menu
* Overview::
* Installing::
* Using opener::
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

Opener is a small package that hooks into @emph{evil} and makes it
possible to open URLs directly in a buffer, instead of going the way
of downloading the corresponding file with your browser and then
opening that file manually. Users of @emph{vim} (which you most likely
were, since you are using @emph{evil}) might be familar that behaviour
already, since it is built into @emph{vim}.

However opener doesn't just open any URL in buffer, only those that it
determines correspond to a classic file. The simple reason for that
is, that normal webpages aren't really intended to be read via
source-code. Therefore those URLs are still opened in your favorite
browser. For information on how to customize the workflow and how to
force it to open in a buffer, see @ref{Using opener}.

This package is a wrapper-package to provide evil-specific
funtionality to opener.

@node Installing
@chapter Installing

It is recommended to install opener.el via the MELPA package
repository. However, it is still (as always) possible to do it by
hand:

To manually install opener.el, clone the git repository it into a
location of your choice (usually within your @code{~/.emacs.d}) and
add that location to your @code{load-path}.

@section Installing from MELPA

Follow these steps to install Octopress.el from the MELPA repository.

@lisp
(require 'package)
(add-to-list 'package-archives
	     '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/") t)
@end lisp

@noindent
Then refresh your packages list:

@example
M-x package-refresh-contents RET
@end example

@noindent
And finally, install evil-opener.el:

@example
M-x package-install RET evil-opener RET
@end example

@section Activating evil-mappings

The command is defined by default. Meaning that @command{:opener} should
be available when the package was loaded.

As however the @command{gf} mapping is overriden by this package, one needs
to opt in by activating the minor mode. This can be done
by calling @code{(global-evil-opener-mode)}.

@lisp
; Example for use-package
(use-package evil-opener
  :config (global-evil-opener-mode))
@end lisp

@node Using evil-opener
@chapter Using evil-opener

Evil-opener automatically hooks into @emph{evil-mode} and provides the
@command{:opener} ex-state command. It basically acts the same way
as the standard @emph{evil-mode} @command{:edit} ex-state command;
meaning that it takes a @var{file} or (in this special case) a
@var{URL} as argument. If you provide a normal path to a file, even if
it is a @emph{TRAMP} specified path, it is opened the same way as you
would expect it from the @command{:edit} command.

If the argument however pertains to a URL in the http or https scheme,
it will either open the corresponding HTTP-response in a buffer, if
that URL seems to be corresponding to a classic file (for information
about that see the corresponding section in the @emph{opener} manual).
Otherwise it will open up a browser at that URL.

Same as the standard @command{:edit} command the @command{:opener}
command also accepts a bang. If @command{:opener!} gets executed the
argument, if it is a URL in http or https scheme, is always opened in
a buffer, no matter if it is a directory- or file-like URL. If it
however is a FILE, the bang gets propagated to the underlying
@command{:edit} command.


While the @command{:opener} command doesn't override the normal
@command{:edit} command — meaning that one still performs its normal
operations — opener overrides another command: @command{gf} in
normal-state. @command{gf} is usually seen as a mnemonic for @emph{go
to file} and opens the filepath at point. However opener seamlessly
hooks into that and allows you to open file-like URLs in a buffer as
well, in any other URL-case it tries to open the URL at point in a
browser and in any other case falls back to the default behaviour of
finding the file at point.

On a side-note: Opener automatically unzips the contents of the buffer
with @emph{zlib}, if possible.

@section Using opener without evil

Just requiring the @emph{opener} package instead of
the @emph{evil-opener} package should do the trick.
For the provided commands see the documentation of the
@emph{opener} package.

@section Customizing opener to my needs

For information of how to configure @emph{opener} see the original
@emph{opener}-package documentation.
