\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename opener.info
@settitle opener Manual 0.1
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for opener version 0.1.

Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Tim Reddehase

@quotation
All rights reserved. This manual must accompany the source code of the
opener.el package.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs lisp libraries
@direntry
* opener: (opener). Seamlessly open files via http(s) in buffer.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title opener.el Manual
@author Tim Reddehase

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@end titlepage

@contents

@node Top
@top Top

This manual is for opener.el, version 0.1.

@menu
* Overview::
* Installing::
* Using opener::
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

Opener is a small package that makes it possible to open URLs directly
in a buffer, instead of going the way of downloading the corresponding
file with your browser and then opening that file manually. Users of
@emph{vim} might be familar that behaviour already, since it is built
into @emph{vim}.

However opener doesn't just open any URL in buffer, only those that it
determines correspond to a classic file. The simple reason for that
is, that normal webpages aren't really intended to be read via
source-code. Therefore those URLs are still opened in your favorite
browser. For information on how to customize the workflow and how to
force it to open in a buffer, see @ref{Using opener}.

@node Installing
@chapter Installing

It is recommended to install opener.el via the MELPA package
repository. However, it is still (as always) possible to do it by
hand:

To manually install opener.el, clone the git repository it into a
location of your choice (usually within your @code{~/.emacs.d}) and
add that location to your @code{load-path}.

@section Installing from MELPA

Follow these steps to install Octopress.el from the MELPA repository.

@lisp
(require 'package)
(add-to-list 'package-archives
	     '("melpa" . "http://melpa.org/packages/") t)
@end lisp

@noindent
Then refresh your packages list:

@example
M-x package-refresh-contents RET
@end example

@noindent
And finally, install opener.el:

@example
M-x package-install RET opener RET
@end example

@section Activating evil-mappings

You'll need to require the @emph{evil-opener} package instead.

@node Using opener
@chapter Using opener

@emph{Info:} The combination of opener with evil is optional, though
highly recommended.

@itemize @bullet
@item
@command{opener-open}, will query the user for a URL or FILE to open.
Provide a universal argument to force the function to open URL in a
buffer instead of applying file-like-url checking semantics.
@item
@command{opener-open-at-point}, opens a URL or file at point. Always applies
file-like-url checking semantics.
@end itemize

@section Customizing opener to my needs

Opener defines a small number of variables that can be used to
customize the behaviour and make it feel as smooth as you like it to
be.

@subsection After buffer-load hooks

In the web data is often minified, to save space and to reduce
transfer-costs (usually time). A typical use-case would be therefore
to unminify the resulting buffer if possible, in order to make it
actually human-readable. The @var{opener-major-mode-hooks} variable
allows you to hook functions into specific major-modes that are to be
executed when the URL is opened via opener. While it is always
possible to just attach these hooks functions to the major-mode
anyway, it would waste computing power to do this for normal files.

The variable contains a list of tuples (assoc-list) that maps a
major-mode to a list of hook-functions that are to be executed in
order and with the corresponding buffer set as the current-buffer. The
functions take no arguments.

@lisp
(defun nxml-pretty-format ()
  (interactive)
  (save-excursion
    (shell-command-on-region (point-min) (point-max) "xmllint --format -" (buffer-name) t)
    (nxml-mode)
    (deactivate-mark t)))

(setq-default opener-major-mode-hooks
  '((nxml-mode (nxml-pretty-format))))
@end lisp

The example will auto-format and indent the buffer contents of a XML
file using the @command{xmllint} binary.

@subsection Choose a custom browser

The @var{opener-url-browser-f} variable holds the reference to a
function that can open a URL with the semantics of a browser. It
defaults to @code{'browse-url}, which should work in most (if not all)
cases. However this variable can be customized to either force a
specific browser, provide an own implementation or to (for example)
start xwidgets instead. In any case the function is expected to take
one argument, the URL.

@lisp
(setq-default opener-url-browser-f
  'xwidget-webkit-browse-url)
@end lisp

@section @anchor{What is a classic file-URL?}What is a classic file-URL?

Although not defined like that, there are historically two types of
used URLs. One is called the @emph{directory}-type and corresponds to
URLs which path looks like it would correspond to a directory on a
UNIX filesystem. For example

@example
@indicateurl{http://example.com/my-directory/is-this-one/} or
@indicateurl{http://example.com/my-directory}.
@end example

However there are also URLs which much
more clearly seem to resemble a file in the path-section of the URL, for example

@example
@indicateurl{http://example.com/sitemap.xml.gz} or
@indicateurl{http://example.com/index.html}.
@end example

We call these file-URLs in this manual, as it pertains to the kind of
URLs that will be handled by opener.

